oos samrose is the director of planning
with onoa the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees you're joining us live from
alzaa in Gaza inside the strip uh Sam
Israel has been accused of using
starvation as a weapon of war is it fair
to say it's also using thirst as a
weapon of
War I mean look what I can can say is
that the water situation uh for
Palestinians in in Gaza it was bad
before the war it's
catastrophic right now both in terms of
availability of of water people's
ability to access that water but also
major concerns about the quality of the
water that that's being provided and
we're seeing that manifested in in
higher rates of
malnutrition and in outbreaks of of
infectious disease in particular uh
hepatitis but we've also seen recently
dentry and and and massive increases in
rates of diarrhea in recent weeks all
this down to poor water quality and and
and and and lack of of quantity yeah so
you're pointing out multiple problems
within one right quantity of water
available access to that water and the
quality of the water in terms of
quantity the report we just heard laid
out that on the on a good day there
might be seven to eight liters available
per person or one person rather might
get access to seven or eight liters of
water um how much water does a human
being need on a daily
basis minimal survival needs we we
estimate in the in the humanitarian sex
are around 15 lers a day per person
minimal that's Sor
that5 for drinking for washing for for
basic hygiene and and and yes as you
said it's a whole range of of inconnect
interconnected problems here that we're
dealing with which means the only
solution to it is is is really a ceas
we've got we've previously had massive
issues with fuel coming in powering
water wells and powering desalination
plants those have recently been eased
but we're we're left with a whole raft
of of other issues the massive damage
that has been inflicted on the water and
sanitation infrastructure over the past
10 months the partial Supply from
Israeli water lines and and and and our
inability to bring in spare parts to
bring in the chemicals to purify the
water we're suffering from a lack of of
chlorine right now and in terms of The
Daily Grind for the people of Gaz as
your correspondent said over a million
people now crammed into the middle area
this isn't an area that's built to
provide services for that many people so
the water points simply aren't here and
when people continually move from one
place to another the the water points
the water providers have to follow them
them round so it's incredibly difficult
to for them to get access and for us and
other water providers in Gaza to ensure
that access when people are on the move
and they're on the Move in the midst of
a of a a very heavy uh conflict as well
and very heavy bombardment so not only
is it difficult it's also often very
dangerous Sam Rose director of planning
with unoa thank you very much for
joining us
today make sure to subscribe to our
channel to the latest news from Al jazer